[Docs] Testing with Jest (#3822)
expo/expo: docs/pages/versions/unversioned/workflow/testing-with-jest.md

---
title: Testing with Jest
---

[Jest](https://jestjs.io) is the most widely used JavaScript unit testing framework, so you may be even be familiar with it already. This guide explains how to set up Jest in your project, write a unit test, write a snapshot test, and common problems that people encounter when using Jest in React Native.

## Installation

The first thing we'll want to do is install jest-expo, it's a Jest preset that mocks out the native side of the Expo SDK and handles some configuration for you.

To install jest-expo as a development dependency run: `yarn add jest-expo --dev` **or** `npm install jest-expo --save-dev`.

Then we need to add/update `package.json` to include:

```js
"scripts": {
  ...
  "test": "jest"
},
"jest": {
  "preset": "jest-expo"
}
```

Now let's add react-test-renderer to our project:

`yarn add react-test-renderer --dev` **or** `npm i react-test-renderer --save-dev`

That's it! Now we can start writing Jest tests!

> > **Note**: [react-native-testing-library](https://github.com/callstack/react-native-testing-library) is a library build on top of react-test-renderer that could be helpful in your workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: [react-native-testing-library](https://github.com/callstack/react-native-testing-library) is a library built on top of react-test-renderer that could be helpful in your workflow, but we won't cover it in this guide.
```

---
title: Testing with Jest
---

> Jest is the most widely used JavaScript unit testing framework, so you may be even be familiar with it already. This guide explains how to set up Jest in your project, write a unit test, write a snapshot test, and common problems that people encounter when using Jest in React Native.

Reviewer 2: Link to https://jestjs.io/ here?

}
```

Now let's add react-test-renderer to our project:

`yarn add react-test-renderer --dev` **or** `npm i react-test-renderer --save-dev`

That's it! Now we can start writing Jest tests!

> **Note**: [react-native-testing-library](https://github.com/callstack/react-native-testing-library) is a library build on top of react-test-renderer that could be helpful in your workflow.

## Unit Test

We are going to write a simple test for `App.js` by creating `App.test.js`. Jest will identify this as a test, and include it in the tests queue. There are other ways to [structure your tests](#structure-your-tests), but we will cover that later in this tutorial.

Our test will be the expected state of the `<App />` to have 1 child element:

```js
import React from 'react';
import renderer from 'react-test-renderer';

import App from './App';

describe('<App />', () => {
  it('has 1 child', () => {
    const tree = renderer.create(<App />).toJSON();
    expect(tree.children.length).toBe(1);
  });
});
```

Now run `yarn test` or `npm run test`, if all went well you should see 1 test passed! Read more on [expect and conditional matchers](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/expect).

> > **Node Version**: If you are running node version 11.11, [Jest will throw errors](https://github.com/facebook/jest/issues/8069), please downgrade or upgrade to 11.12+

Reviewer 2: is this needed?

Let's add the following within the describe():
```js
it('renders correctly', () => {
  const tree = renderer.create(<App />).toJSON();
  expect(tree).toMatchSnapshot();
});
```

Now run `yarn test` or `npm run test`, if all went well you should see a snapshot created and 2 tests passed!

This was a very simple test, for more information take a look at the following links:

- [Api: Globals](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/api)
- [Api: Mock Functions](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/mock-function-api)
- [Api: Expect](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/expect)
- [Cli Options](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/cli)

## Code Coverage Reports

Running tests are cool and all, but wouldn't you like to see your Expo projects total code coverage?! Maybe even see it in html format?! This section is for you!

Let's head back to `package.json` and add the following:

```js
"jest": {
  ...
  "collectCoverage": true,
  "collectCoverageFrom": [
    "**/*.{js,jsx}",
    "!**/coverage/**",
    "!**/node_modules/**",
    "!**/babel.config.js",
    "!**/jest.setup.js"
  ],

>   "verbose": true

Reviewer 2: why add `verbose`?

Author: i guess i was thinking testDebug would be the only one that verbose would be set to false. should it not be true by default?

As promised, let's talk about how to set up the tests, right now we have a single `.test.js` in the root of our Expo project. This can get messy quickly, the easiest way is to create a `__tests__` directory (anywhere you'd like) and put all the tests there. For example see below:

```bash
__tests__/
├─ components/
│  └─ button.test.js
├─ navigation/
│  └─ mainstack.test.js
└─ screens/
   └─ home.test.js
src/
├─ components/
│  └─ button.js
├─ navigation/
│  └─ mainstack.js
└─ screens/
   └─ home.js
```

This **could** cause a lot of long import paths though (`../../src/components/button`), so another option would be to have multiple `__tests__` directories:

```bash
src/
├─ components/
├─ __tests__/
│  │  └─ button.test.js
│  └─ button.js
...
```

So if we move `__tests__` within `components`, the *button.test.js* import of `<Button />` would now be: `../button`, that's a lot better!

Another option for test/file structure:

```bash
src/
├─ components/
│  ├─ button.js
│  ├─ button.style.js
│  └─ button.test.js
...
```

At the end of the day, it's all preference and up to you on how you'd like to structure things, but we wanted to share a few options to consider.

## Jest Flows

> This is optional, but wanted to talk about different jest test flows. Currently we run the test and that's it, but take a look at the [Cli Options](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/cli). Below are a few script setups to try:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is optional, but wanted to talk about different Jest test flows. Currently we run the test and that's it, but take a look at the [CLI Options](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/cli). Below are a few script setups to try:
```

```js
"scripts": {
  ...
  // active development of tests, watch files for changes and re-runs all tests

>   "test": "jest --watchAll --coverage=false",

Reviewer 2: why `watchAll` instead of just `watch`? All files are still watched no matter what, it's just "should jest run all tests, or just those that have changed since the last commit"

Reviewer 2: might be worth to add a `--changedSince=origin/master`?
